Added web3 reference guide (#19970)
solana-labs/solana: docs/src/developing/clients/javascript-reference.md

    fromPublicKey.publicKey,
    web3.LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
);

await connection.confirmTransaction(airdropSignature);

let type = web3.SYSTEM_INSTRUCTION_LAYOUTS.Transfer;
let data = Buffer.alloc(type.layout.span);
let layoutFields = Object.assign({instruction: type.index});
type.layout.encode(layoutFields, data);

let recentBlockhash = await connection.getRecentBlockhash();

let messageParams = {
    accountKeys: [
        fromPublicKey.publicKey.toString(),
        toPublicKey.toString(),
        web3.SystemProgram.programId.toString()
    ],
    header: {
        numReadonlySignedAccounts: 0,
        numReadonlyUnsignedAccounts: 1,
        numRequiredSignatures: 1,
    },
    instructions: [
        {
        accounts: [0, 1],
        data: bs58.encode(data),
        programIdIndex: 2,
        },
    ],
    recentBlockhash,
};

let message = new web3.Message(messageParams);

let transaction = web3.Transaction.populate(
    message,
    [fromPublicKey.publicKey.toString()]
);

await web3.sendAndConfirmTransaction(connection, transaction, [fromPublicKey])
```

### NonceAccount

[Source Documentation](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/NonceAccount.html)

> Normally a transaction is rejected if a transaction's `recentBlockhash` field is too old. To provide for certain custodial services, Nonce Accounts are used. Transactions created by a Nonce Account do not expire because they start with an `AdvanceNonceAccount` instruction, which updates the Nonce Account with an up-to-date `recentBlockhash`. This on-chain `recentBlockhash` is then used in the Nonce Account's transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally a transaction is rejected if a transaction's `recentBlockhash` field is too old. To provide for certain custodial services, Nonce Accounts are used. Transactions which use a `recentBlockhash` captured on-chain by a Nonce Account do not expire as long at the Nonce Account is not advanced.
```

---
title: Web3 API Reference
---

## Web3 API Reference Guide

### Authorized

[Source Documentation](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/Authorized.html)

Authorized is an object used when creating an authorized account for staking within Solana. You can designate a `staker` and `withdrawer` separately, allowing for a different account to withdraw other than the staker.

You can find more usage of the `Authorized` object under [`StakeProgram`](javascript-api.md#StakeProgram)

> ### BpfLoader

Reviewer: Let's leave this out, I'd like to deprecate the bpf loader from web3 and encourage devs to use the cli instead

#### Example Usage

```javascript
const web3 = require("@solana/web3.js");

let connection = new web3.Connection(web3.clusterApiUrl('devnet'), 'confirmed');

let slot = await connection.getSlot();
console.log(slot);
// 93186439

let blockTime = await connection.getBlockTime(slot);
console.log(blockTime);
// 1630747045

let block = await connection.getBlock(slot);
console.log(block);

/*
{
    blockHeight: null,
    blockTime: 1630747045,
    blockhash: 'AsFv1aV5DGip9YJHHqVjrGg6EKk55xuyxn2HeiN9xQyn',
    parentSlot: 93186438,
    previousBlockhash: '11111111111111111111111111111111',
    rewards: [],
    transactions: []
}
*/

let slotLeader = await connection.getSlotLeader();
console.log(slotLeader);
//49AqLYbpJYc2DrzGUAH1fhWJy62yxBxpLEkfJwjKy2jr
```

The above example shows only a few of the methods on Connection. Please see the [source generated docs](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/Connection.html) for the full list.

### Enum

[Source Documentation](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/Enum.html)

> The Enum class is used to represent a Rust compatible Enum in javascript. The enum will just be a string representation if logged but can be properly encoded/decoded when used in conjunction with [Struct](javascript-api.md#Struct).

Reviewer: It's specifically for borsh encoded data, can you mention that?

#### Example Usage

Rust:
```rust
pub enum AccountType {
    Uninitialized,
    StakePool,
    ValidatorList,
}
```

Web3:
```javascript
import {Enum} from '@solana/web3.js';

export class AccountType extends Enum {}
```

> ### EpochSchedule

Reviewer: I don't think this one is too valuable

//   227,  60,  72, 215,  47, 208, 209, 162,  59
// ]

let accountFromSecret = Keypair.fromSecretKey(account.secretKey);

console.log(accountFromSecret.publicKey.toBase58());
console.log(accountFromSecret.secretKey);

// 2DVaHtcdTf7cm18Zm9VV8rKK4oSnjmTkKE6MiXe18Qsb
// Uint8Array(64) [
//   152,  43, 116, 211, 207,  41, 220,  33, 193, 168, 118,
//    24, 176,  83, 206, 132,  47, 194,   2, 203, 186, 131,
//   197, 228, 156, 170, 154,  41,  56,  76, 159, 124,  18,
//    14, 247,  32, 210,  51, 102,  41,  43,  21,  12, 170,
//   166, 210, 195, 188,  60, 220, 210,  96, 136, 158,   6,
//   205, 189, 165, 112,  32, 200, 116, 164, 234
// ]
```

Using `generate` generates a random Keypair for use as an account on Solana. Using `fromSeed`, you can generate a Keypair using a deterministic constructor. `fromSecret` creates a Keypair from a secret Uint8array. You can see that the publicKey for the `generate` Keypair and `fromSecret` Keypair are the same because the secret from the `generate` Keypair is used in `fromSecret`.

**Warning**: Do not use `fromSeed` unless you are creating a seed with high entropy. Do not share your seed. Treat the seed like you would a private key.

> ### Loader

Reviewer: Remove please

#### Example Usage

```javascript
const {Authorized, Keypair, Lockup, StakeProgram} = require("@solana/web3.js");

let account = Keypair.generate();
let stakeAccount = Keypair.generate();
let authorized = new Authorized(account.publicKey, account.publicKey);
let lockup = new Lockup(0, 0, account.publicKey);

let createStakeAccountInstruction = StakeProgram.createAccount({
    fromPubkey: account.publicKey,
    authorized: authorized,
    lamports: 1000,
    lockup: lockup,
    stakePubkey: stakeAccount.publicKey
});
```
The above code creates a `createStakeAccountInstruction` to be used when creating an account with the `StakeProgram`. The Lockup is set to 0 for both the epoch and Unix timestamp, disabling lockup for the account.

See [StakeProgram](javascript-api.md#StakeProgram) for more.

### Message

[Source Documentation](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/Message.html)

> Message is used as another way to construct transactions. You can construct a message using the accounts, header, instructions, and recentBlockhash that are a part of a transaction.

Reviewer: Can you also say that a transaction is the combination of a message and a list of signatures? It's not too clear that `Message` is basically the same thing as a transaction (minus the signatures)

    fromPublicKey.publicKey,
    web3.LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
);

await connection.confirmTransaction(airdropSignature);

let type = web3.SYSTEM_INSTRUCTION_LAYOUTS.Transfer;
let data = Buffer.alloc(type.layout.span);
let layoutFields = Object.assign({instruction: type.index});
type.layout.encode(layoutFields, data);

let recentBlockhash = await connection.getRecentBlockhash();

let messageParams = {
    accountKeys: [
        fromPublicKey.publicKey.toString(),
        toPublicKey.toString(),
        web3.SystemProgram.programId.toString()
    ],
    header: {
        numReadonlySignedAccounts: 0,
        numReadonlyUnsignedAccounts: 1,
        numRequiredSignatures: 1,
    },
    instructions: [
        {
        accounts: [0, 1],
        data: bs58.encode(data),
        programIdIndex: 2,
        },
    ],
    recentBlockhash,
};

let message = new web3.Message(messageParams);

let transaction = web3.Transaction.populate(
    message,
    [fromPublicKey.publicKey.toString()]
);

await web3.sendAndConfirmTransaction(connection, transaction, [fromPublicKey])
```

### NonceAccount

[Source Documentation](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/NonceAccount.html)

> Normally a transaction is rejected if a transaction's `recentBlockhash` field is too old. To provide for certain custodial services, Nonce Accounts are used.

Reviewer: Can you specify that "nonced" transactions (that is, transactions which start with an advance nonce ix) do not expire because the nonce account stores a recent blockhash on-chain which is then specified in the transaction's `recentBlockhash` field?

let connection = new web3.Connection(
    web3.clusterApiUrl('devnet'),
    'confirmed',
);

// Generate accounts
let account = web3.Keypair.generate();
let nonceAccount = web3.Keypair.generate();

// Fund account
let airdropSignature = await connection.requestAirdrop(
    account.publicKey,
    web3.LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
);

await connection.confirmTransaction(airdropSignature);

// Get Minimum amount for rent exemption
let minimumAmount = await connection.getMinimumBalanceForRentExemption(
    web3.NONCE_ACCOUNT_LENGTH,
);

// Form CreateNonceAccount transaction
let transaction = new web3.Transaction().add(
web3.SystemProgram.createNonceAccount({
    fromPubkey: account.publicKey,
    noncePubkey: nonceAccount.publicKey,
    authorizedPubkey: account.publicKey,
    lamports: minimumAmount,
}),
);
// Create Nonce Account
await web3.sendAndConfirmTransaction(
    connection,
    transaction,
    [account, nonceAccount]
);

let nonceAccountData = await connection.getNonce(
    nonceAccount.publicKey,
    'confirmed',
);

console.log(nonceAccountData);
// NonceAccount {
//   authorizedPubkey: PublicKey {
//     _bn: <BN: 919981a5497e8f85c805547439ae59f607ea625b86b1138ea6e41a68ab8ee038>

> //   },

Reviewer: Side note, it would be great if this logged in a prettier way. Do you mind writing an issue for that?

Author: Created #20022. I'll take a stab at it if it is still open tomorrow.

// We can then delegate our stake to the voteAccount
let delegateTransaction = web3.StakeProgram.delegate({
    stakePubkey: stakeAccount.publicKey,
    authorizedPubkey: authorizedAccount.publicKey,
    votePubkey: votePubkey,
});
await web3.sendAndConfirmTransaction(connection, delegateTransaction, [fromPublicKey, authorizedAccount]);

// To withdraw our funds, we first have to deactivate the stake
let deactivateTransaction = web3.StakeProgram.deactivate({
    stakePubkey: stakeAccount.publicKey,
    authorizedPubkey: authorizedAccount.publicKey,
});
await web3.sendAndConfirmTransaction(connection, deactivateTransaction, [fromPublicKey, authorizedAccount]);

// Once deactivated, we can withdraw our funds
let withdrawTransaction = web3.StakeProgram.withdraw({
    stakePubkey: stakeAccount.publicKey,
    authorizedPubkey: authorizedAccount.publicKey,
    toPubkey: fromPublicKey.publicKey,
    lamports: stakeBalance,
});

await web3.sendAndConfirmTransaction(connection, withdrawTransaction, [fromPublicKey, authorizedAccount]);
```

### Struct

[SourceDocumentation](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/Struct.html)

> The struct class is used to create Rust compatible structs in javascript.

Reviewer: Again, can you please add a note that this is specific to borsh?

let recentBlockhash = await connection.getRecentBlockhash();
let manualTransaction = new web3.Transaction({
    recentBlockhash: recentBlockhash.blockhash,
    feePayer: payer.publicKey
});
manualTransaction.add(web3.SystemProgram.transfer({
    fromPubkey: payer.publicKey,
    toPubkey: toAccount.publicKey,
    lamports: 1000,
}));

let transactionBuffer = manualTransaction.serializeMessage();
let signature = nacl.sign.detached(transactionBuffer, payer.secretKey);

manualTransaction.addSignature(payer.publicKey, signature);

let isVerifiedSignature = manualTransaction.verifySignatures();
console.log(`The signatures were verifed: ${isVerifiedSignature}`)

// The signatures were verified: true

let rawTransaction = manualTransaction.serialize();

await web3.sendAndConfirmRawTransaction(connection, rawTransaction);
```

### TransactionInstruction

[SourceDocumentation](https://solana-labs.github.io/solana-web3.js/classes/TransactionInstruction.html)

The TransactionInstruction object is used to create instructions to be used in transactions. They consist of keys, data, and a programId.

See [Transaction](javascript-api.md#Transaction) for more use.

> ### ValidatorInfo

Reviewer: Don't think this is too important
